Premarket Notification 510(k)
Blackstone Medical, Inc.
Blackstone PEEK VBR System Lordotic Lateral Spacers
(System Modification)
Confidential
510(K) SUMMARY 
kolIm
Name of Firm: 
Blackstone Medical, Inc.
90 Brookdale Drive
Springfield, MA 01104
510(k) Contact: 
Dean E. Ciporkin
Director, Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance
Trade Name: 
Blackstone TM PEEK Vertebral Body Replacement System
Lordotic Lateral Spacers
Common Name: 
Spinal Vertebral Body Replacement Device
Device Product Code
& Classification: 
MQP- 888.3060 - Spinal Vertebral Body Replacement Device
Substantially
Equivalent Devices: 
Blackstone PEEK Vertebral 
Body Replacement 
System
(K033702)
Device Description:
Blackstone Medical, Inc. PEEK Vertebral Body Replacement (VBR) System is
comprised 
of a variety 
of components 
fabricated 
and 
manufactured 
from
Polyetheretherketone (PEEK Optima LT) as described by ASTM F-2026. This material
is utilized due to its radiolucent properties, which aid the surgeon in determining if
fusion in the operative site has occurred. Titanium markers are inserted into
components to give surgeons a visual aid in determining the location of the implant
both inter and postoperatively. The superior and inferior surfaces of the construct have a
pattern of ripples to provide increased stability and help prevent lateral movement of
the device.
The Lordotic Lateral Spacers restore the natural curvature of the spine.
Summary 
I of 2 
Revision 0

Premarket Notification 510(k)
Blackstone Medical, Inc.
Blackstone PEEK VBR System Lordotic Lateral Spacers
(System Modification)
Confidential
Intended Use / Indications for Use: 
a
The Blackstone Medical PEEK Vertebral Body Replacement System is indicated for use
in the thoraco-lumbar spine (T1-L5) to replace a diseased vertebral body resected or
excised for the treatment of tumors, to achieve anterior decompression of the spinal cord
and neural tissues, and to restore the height of a collapsed vertebral body. The PEEK
VBR System is also indicated for treating fractures of the thoracic and lumbar spine. It is
recommended that bone graft material be packed inside the system prior to implantation.
The PEEK VBR System is intended to be used with supplemental internal fixation.
Specifically, the supplemental internal fixation system that may be used with the PEEK
VBR System is the Blackstone Medical Spinal Fixation System.
Basis of Substantial Equivalence:
The BlackstoneTM PEEK Vertebral Body Replacement System Lordotic Lateral Spacers
are substantially equivalent to the BlackstoneTM PEEK Vertebral Body Replacement
System (K033702), which has received market clearance by the FDA.
Summary 
2 of 2 
Revision 0

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES 
Public Health Service
Food and Drug Administration
9200 Corporate Boulevard
Rockville MD 20850
AUG 17 2004
Mr. Dean E. Ciporkin
Director, Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance
Blackstone Medical, Inc.
90 Brookdale Drive
Springfield, Massachusetts 01104
Re: K041939
Trade/Device Name: Blackstone
T M PEEK VBR System Lordotic Lateral Spacers
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 888.3060
Regulation Name: Spinal intervertebral body fixation orthosis
Regulatory Class: II
Product Code: MQP
Dated: July 16, 2004
Received: July 19, 2004
Dear Mr. Ciporkin:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device
referenced above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications
for use stated in the enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate
commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to
devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a premarket approval application (PMA).
You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls provisions of the Act. The
general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration, listing of
devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class Ii (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it
may be subject to such additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can
be found in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may
publish further announcements concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean
that FDA has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act
or any Federal statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must
comply with all the Act's requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21
CFR Part 807): labeling (21 CFR Part 801); good manufacturing practice requirements as set
tbrth in the quality systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820); and if applicable, the electronic
product radiation control provisions (Sections 53 1-542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.

Page 2 - Mr. Dean E. Ciporkin
This letter will allow you to begin marketing your device as described in your Section 510(k)
premarket notification. The FDA finding of substantial equivalence of your device to a legally
marketed predicate device results in a classification for your device and thus.permits your device
to proceed to the market.
If you desire specific advice for your device on our labeling regulation (21 CFR Part 801), please
contact the Office of Compliance at (301) 594-4692. Also, please note the regulation entitled,
"Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21CFR Part 807.97). You may obtain
other general information on your responsibilities under the Act from the Division of Small
Manufacturers, International and Consumer Assistance at its toll-free number (800) 638-2041 or
(301) 443-6597 or at its Internet address http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/dsma/dsmamain.html
Sincerely yours,
4 eia 
Witten Ph. D M. D
Director
Division of General, Restorative
and Neurological Devices
Office of Device Evaluation
Center for Devices and
Radiological Health
Enclosure

Indications for Use
510(k) Number (if known):
Device Name: 
Blackstone PEEK VBR System Lordotic Lateral Spacers
Indications for Use:
The Blackstone VBR device is indicated for use in the thoraco-lumbar spine (T1-L5) to
replace a diseased vertebral body resected or excised for the treatment of tumors, to
achieve anterior decompression of the spinal cord and neural tissues, and to restore
the height of a collapsed vertebral body.
The Blackstone VBR device is also indicated for treating fractures of the thoracic and
lumbar spine.
The Blackstone VBR device is designed to restore the biomechanical integrity of the
anterior, middle, and posterior spinal column, even in the absence of fusion for a
prolonged period. Additionally, the VBR device is intended to be used with bone graft.
The Blackstone VBR device is intended for use with supplemental internal fixation. The
supplemental internal fixation system that may be used is the Blackstone Spinal
Fixation System.
Prescription Use 
X 
AND/OR 
Over-The-Counter Use
(Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) 
(21 CFR 807 Subpart C)
(PLEASE DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE-CONTINUE ON ANOTHER PAGE IF
NEEDED)
Concurrence of CDRH, Office of Device Evaluation (ODE)
(DivnsiofSinO)
siod Si-g-n-.w 
~~Page1I ofAI
Division of General, Restorative,
and Neurological Devices
510(k)Number 
Kc58 
93cj
